2022 ASRJC promo
1. ‘The rich get richer while the poor get poorer.’ To what extent is this true?
2. ‘The government should always fulfil the demands of the majority.’ How far do you agree?
3. ‘Food is more than just about satisfying one's hunger.’ Discuss.
4. Is it justifiable to expect poor nations to contribute to environmental efforts?
5. ‘There is no need to prepare for the future in this unpredictable world.’ To what extent is this true of your society?
6. ‘Life has never been better for women than it is now.’ Comment.
7. To what extent should the government control the media in your society?
8. Is discrimination always bad?
9. How far can we rely on social media to tell the truth?
10. ‘Music today is nothing but entertainment.’ How far do you agree?
11. How far do you agree that green technology is overrated as a solution to environmental problems?
12. Is loyalty to one's country of birth still important today?

2022 NYJC promo
1. Is conformity always desirable?
2. There is little future in the arts. Discuss.
3. Is it true that young people today are a lost generation?
4. There will always be a conflict between economic growth and environmental protection. Do you agree?
5. It is more important than ever to possess reading skills today. Do you agree?
6. Is a reliance on foreign labour justifiable in your society?
7. Medical advances have not created a better world for mankind. Discuss.
8. Assess the view that children should be banned from using social media.
9. To what extent does globalisation bring about prosperity for all?
10. There is no place for failure in your society. Do you agree?
11. Is it possible to eradicate discrimination against those who are different?
12. The digital age has handicapped the elderly. Discuss.

2023 A-Level
1. ⁠How realistic is it for countries to implement a national minimum wage for all their workers?
2. ⁠‘Fossil fuels should no longer have a part in the production of energy.’ Discuss.
3. ⁠Consider the view that spending money on space travel cannot be justified in today’s world.
4. ⁠Consider the argument that there should be no censorship of the arts in modern society.
5. ⁠‘People who undertake voluntary work do so more for their own benefit than for the benefit of others.’ Discuss.
6. ⁠Assess the extent to which all people in your society have the opportunity to achieve their full potential.
7. ⁠‘The quality of human interaction is diminished by modern communication devices.’ How far do you agree?
8. ⁠To what extent are festivals and national holidays effective in promoting unity in your society?
9. ⁠‘Regret for past actions is vital for progress.’ What is your view?
10. ⁠Evaluate the claim that sports personalities make good role models for young people.
11. ⁠Assess the view that accurate translation between languages is always necessary.
12. ⁠‘Young people want to change the world because they do not know it is impossible.’ How far do you agree?

2022 A-Level
1. Consider the view that people imprisoned for crimes should lose all their rights.
2. Does religion still have a role in the modern world?
3. ‘Dramas on television or film are never as effective as a live performance.’ Discuss.
4. Assess the extent to which different age groups in your society are valued equally.
5. To what extent can individuals shape their own lives when the world is so unpredictable?
6. Too many historical figures are famous for the wrong reasons.’ Discuss.
7. ‘The results of scientific research should be available to everyone ‘How far do you agree?
8. Examine the claim that music without words lacks both meaning and appeal.
9. Since the extinction of species is a natural phenomenon, is there any point in trying to prevent it?
10. ‘Consumerism is more of a curse than a blessing.’ How true is this of your society?
11. Consider the view that mathematics is of little interest to most people as it is too complex.
12. ‘It is not winning, but taking part, which matters.’ How acceptable is this as an approach to life?

2021 A-Level
1. How far is the pursuit of happiness the most important human goal?
2. ‘Scientific advancement breeds complacency.’ How far do you agree?
3. ‘Power these days lies more with the people than the politicians.’ To what extent is this true?
4. To what extent has social media devalued true friendship in your society?
5. To what extent is charitable giving desirable?
6. ‘Films are concerned with escaping from the problems of everyday life, rather than addressing them.’ Discuss.
7. ‘What an individual eats or drinks should not be the concern of the state.’ What is your view?
8. Is news today reliable?
9. ‘The arts are nothing more than a luxury.’ How far is this true of your society?
10. ‘Staging major sporting events brings nothing but benefits to the host country.’ Discuss.
11. Are global tourism and travel still necessary when everything can be experienced or achieved online?
12. ‘Advertising is largely about persuading people to buy what they do not need.’ How far do you agree?

2020 A-Level
1. How reliable are statistics as a guide for planning the future?
2. To what extent is human life in general about the survival of the fittest?
3. ‘Individuals achieve sporting success, not nations’. Discuss.
4. ‘We shape our buildings, but then our buildings shape us.’ To what extent is this true of your society?
5. To what extent can any society claim to be great?
6. Examine the view that the scientist is concerned only with knowledge, not morality.
7. Given greater levels of international cooperation, how necessary is it for countries to engage in the arms trade?
8. Should politicians pursue the popular viewpoint or their own convictions, if they conflict?
9. Is modern technology a benefit or a threat to democracy?
10. ‘An appreciation of music is vital for a fully rounded education.’ How true is this of your society?
11. ‘In a free society, there should be no restrictions on freedom of speech.’ Discuss.
12. How far can prosperity and uncontrolled population growth go hand in hand?


2019 A-Level
1. How far should countries have relations with others whose human rights record is poor?
2. To what extent should income equality be a goal in your society?
3. ‘Science is the only answer to global hunger’. Discuss.
4. Consider the view that social media has more influence than politicians.
5. To what extent is artificial intelligence replacing the role of humans?
6. ‘A leader’s responsibility should always be to his or her own country, not other nations.’ Discuss.
7. ‘Religion is an important part of the lives of young people today.’ Consider whether this is true in your society.
8. Does violence in the visual media portray reality or encourage the unacceptable?
9. Is globalisation to be welcomed or feared today?
10. Should both parents take equal responsibility for raising their children?
11. Assess the importance of food within Singaporean culture.
12. Can fiction teach us anything meaningful about the real world?

2018 A-Level
1. How far is failure an essential part of success?
2. To what extent is the pursuit of continuous economic growth a desirable goal?
3. In an age of rapid technological advancement, is a single career for life realistic?
4. ‘In the global age we inhabit, there is no justification for national boundaries.’ How far do you agree?
5. To what extent is sporting achievement given adequate recognition in your society?
6. Do handicrafts still have value when machine-produced goods are so readily available?
7. ‘People today do not work as hard as they did in the past.’ How true is this of your society?
8. Discuss the view that all countries have an equal responsibility to counter terrorism.
9. Is pressure a motivating force or a cause for unhappiness?
10. ‘Works of art which have been removed from their country of origin should be returned.’ Discuss.
11. ‘Foreign aid does not solve long-term problems.’ To what extent is this a fair viewpoint?
12. Consider the view that we do not take enough responsibility for our own well-being.

2017 A-Level
1. ‘The past is not dead. It is not even past.’ Discuss.
2. Can the use of animals for scientific research ever be justified?
3. In your society, to what extent is it acceptable for public money to be used for the acquisition of works of art?
4. ‘Rehabilitation, not punishment, should be the purpose of the justice system.’ Discuss.
5. Is regulation of the press desirable?
6. Do events, rather than politicians, shape the future?
7. How far is science fiction becoming fact?
8. Examine the role of music in establishing a national identity in your society.
9. To what extent are people judged more by their physical appearances than by their abilities?
10. ‘Practical ability is just as important as intellectual skills.’ How far is this true in your society?
11. Assess the view that attempts to control climate change can never be truly effective.
12. ‘The quality of written language is being destroyed by social media.’ What is your view?

2016 A-Level
1. ‘Any adaptation of a novel for a film, television or the theatre is never as effective as the original.’ Discuss.
2. Assess the view that traditional buildings have no future in your society.
3. ‘Longer life expectancy creates more problems than benefits.’ Discuss.
4. Considering the money involved, should developing countries be allowed to host major sporting events?
5. ‘Human need, rather than profit, should always be the main concern of scientific research.’ Discuss.
6. ‘Countries experiencing conflict should be left to sort out their own problems.’ How far do you agree?
7. How far has modern technology made it unnecessary for individuals to possess mathematical skills?
8. ‘People who do the most worthwhile jobs rarely receive the best financial rewards.’ To what extent is this true of your society?
9. Evaluate the claim that equality of opportunity for females is a desirable, but unrealistic, goal.
10. Assess the view that most natural disasters are the result of human activity.
11. Is competition always desirable?
12. ‘Everyone has an opinion, but not everyone’s opinion is of equal value.’ What is your view?

2015 A-Level
1. ‘There is no such thing as bad publicity.’ To what extent is this true?
2. How far is it possible for one country to forgive another for its past actions?
3. How effectively is public health promoted and managed in your country?
4. ‘No cause is ever worth dying for’. Discuss.
5. Consider the argument that the main purpose of television should be to educate rather than simply to entertain.
6. In your society, how well are the demands of the economy and the environment balanced?
7. ‘Parents have no right to impose their own values and beliefs on their children.’ Discuss.
8. ‘Books serve little purpose in education as technological developments become more sophisticated’. How far do you agree?
9. To what extent should the arts in your society focus on local rather than foreign talent?
10. Should there be any controls over the production of energy when the need for it is so great?
11. When a government’s finances for social welfare are limited, should they be directed towards the young or the old?
12. ‘Human actions should be based on scientific fact, not religious faith’. How far do you agree with this statement?

2014 A-Level
1. ‘Traditional marriage is an outdated concept.’ To what extent is this true of your society?
2. How far should firms be allowed to limit their workers’ rights when profits are at stake?
3. ‘Gambling on sport undermines its spirit and should be banned.’ How realistic is this position?
4. Discuss the view that, with an increasing global need for energy, every possible source should be exploited to the full.
5. ‘For the majority of people, the Arts are irrelevant to their daily lives.’ How true is this of your society?
6. How far is it important for people to be aware of current events in countries other than their own?
7. In times of economic hardship, should a country still be expected to provide financial or material aid to others?
8. Do films offer anything more than an escape from reality?
9. To what extent can the regulation of scientific or technological developments be justified?
10. ‘Getting what one wants in life is what matters.’ Discuss.
11. Examine the extent to which expenditure on arms and the armed forces is justifiable in the modern world.
12. Consider the view that some careers are better suited to one gender than the other.

2013 A-Level
1. ‘The world would be a better place if more political leaders were women.’ What is your view?
2. ‘Unlike the Arts, such as writing or music, Mathematics lacks the capacity for creativity.’ How far do you agree with this statement?
3. Is there any point in trying to predict future trends?
4. To what extent is it possible to make the punishment fit the crime?
5. Discuss the claim that in the modern world people should care more about international than national issues.
6. How important is it to save plant and animal species which are in danger of extinction?
7. ‘Scientific research into health and diet is unreliable as it so often contradicts itself.’ Is this a fair comment?
8. How far is increased prosperity for all a realistic goal in your society?
9. Consider the view that spoken language is more important than the written form.
10. Why should we be concerned with current affairs when most of them will soon be forgotten?
11. ‘Education should only be concerned with what is useful in life.’ Discuss.
12. How far, in your society, should unpopular views be open to discussion?

2012 A-Level
1. Is there any value in preserving minority languages in the world?
2. ‘People in the Arts, living or dead, receive far more recognition than those in the sciences, even though it is less deserved.’ Consider this claim.
3. Should people be allowed to have children by artificial means?
4. To what extent are the rights of animals protected in your society?
5. ‘The most influential individuals in history are those who have caused the most harm.’ How far would you accept this view?
6. Is violence ever justified?
7. Consider the view that mathematics possesses not only truth, but supreme beauty.
8. In your society, how far is equality for all a reality?
9. Should everyone be expected to donate suitable organs after death?
10. Can humour ever be serious?
11. ‘The key criterion for good government is how well the economy is managed.’ Is this a fair assessment?
12. How far is it acceptable for technology to be used only for financial benefit?

2011 A-Level
1. Can prejudice ever be eliminated?
2. ‘Taking risks is an essential part of life and should be encouraged.’ Discuss.
3. Consider the view that efficient government is more important than democracy.
4. To what extent is it acceptable for private companies to be involved in financing scientific research?
5. ‘Environmental concerns and economic growth cannot co-exist.’ Do you agree?
6. In the digital age, do newspapers still have a role in your society?
7. Do awards and prizes serve any useful purpose?
8. How far should medical resources be used to extend life expectancy?
9. Can space research be justified nowadays?
10. ‘Only modern architecture and modern art have a place in today’s world.’ How true is this of your society?
11. How far should countries aim to be self-sufficient?
12. ‘Science is unreliable, being based as much on theory as on fact.’ Is this a fair comment?

2010 A-Level
1. Consider the view that most work these days could, and should, be done from home.
2. How far can an individual be held responsible for crimes against humanity?
3. Would it matter if all the performing arts venues in your society, such as concert halls and theatres, were closed down?
4. ‘The person who dies rich dies disgraced.’ Discuss.
5. ‘The book has no place in modern society.’ Discuss.
6. To what extent has technology had a negative impact on the skill levels of people?
7. Does sport merit the vast sums of money that are spent on it?
8. How effective are international efforts to ease the problem of global hunger?
9. ‘No politician’s reputation can survive the judgement of time.’ How true is this?
10. How important is it for people in your society to retain a sense of tradition?
11. ‘The key to good health is lifestyle rather than medicine.’ How far do you agree?
12. Can mathematics be seen as anything more than a useful tool in everyday life?


2009 A-Level
1. Is the elimination of global poverty a realistic aim?
2. ‘Only educated people should have the right to vote in elections.’ What is your view?
3. Are certain types of writing superior to others?
4. Should a love of one’s country still be encouraged?
5. To what extent has technology had an impact on both privacy and security in your country?
6. ‘History records male acts, written by males, and holds little interest for females as a result.’ Is this a fair comment?
7. How far should religion influence political decisions?
8. Should every country have the right to carry out unlimited scientific research?
9. Assess the impact of foreign films or foreign TV programmes on the culture of your society.
10. Can transport of food over vast distances be justified?
11. ‘Fashion is as much a good thing as a bad thing.” To what extent do you agree?
12. As long as people in the public eye do their job well, does it matter what they do in private?

2008 A-Level
1. Does the presence of a foreign power ever help a country with problems?
2. How important are dreams?
3. ‘The more science advances, the more religion will decline.’ To what extent do you agree?
4. How far do physical features, such as size and location, determine a country’s progress?
5. ‘Nowadays, the pleasures of reading can never compete with the pleasures of visual entertainment.’ To what extent do you agree?
6. To what extent does the migration of people have a positive effect?
7. ‘Air travel should be discouraged, not promoted.’ To what extent do you agree?
8. Many developed countries are paying increasing attention to the needs of the disadvantaged. How far is this true in Singapore?
9. Discuss the view that too much faith is placed in statistics.
10. ‘Contemporary music has no artistic value.’ Is this a fair comment?
11. How far is it possible to ensure that all producers of food and goods are fairly rewarded?
12. To what extent is design important in your society?

2007 A-Level
1. ‘The view of the majority is always right.’ Do you agree?
2. Can a belief in the supernatural be sustained in our modern world?
3. ‘The arts cannot change the world but they make it more beautiful.’ Discuss this view with reference to one of the following: painting, sculpture or music.
4. How far should a state have a right to monitor the actions of people within its borders?
5. ‘Mass production inevitably means a loss of craftsmanship and quality.’ Is this true in your society?
6. How important is a sense of history in shaping the future of Singapore’s society?
7. Should poorer countries develop their tourist industry when the basic needs of their own people are not being met?
8. ‘The pen is mightier than the sword.’ Can written language really be so powerful?
9. ‘Advertisements are often entertaining, but they rarely affect consumer choice.’ Is this your experience?
10. Is it possible to protect the environment when many countries require increasing amounts of energy to progress?
11. Should research into expensive medical treatments be allowed when only a few can afford them?
12. ‘The word failure should never be used in education.’ Discuss.

2006 A-Level
1. Is there still a place for charity in today’s world? 
2. ‘A picture is always more powerful than mere words.’ What is your view? 
3. Does modern technology always improve the quality of people’s lives? 
4. ‘National boundaries make little geographical or economic sense nowadays.’ Discuss. 
5. Should crimes that were committed many years ago simply be forgotten? 
6. How far is your country prepared for future crises? 
7. ‘The world would be a better place if everyone spoke the same language.’ Discuss. 
8. To what extent do young people in your society take an interest in politics? 
9. ‘Entrepreneurship is just another name for personal greed.’ How far do you agree with this statement? 
10. Do myths and legends still have a role to play in Singapore? 
11. ‘Women will never enjoy the same rights as men.’ Do you agree? 
12. To what extent do the newspapers and magazines that you read deal with what is trivial, rather than what is important?

2005 A-Level
1. Is effective farming possible without science?
2. ‘There is no such thing as luck. People determine their own lives.’ Do you agree?
3. To what extent should the State involve itself in the world of business?
4. Do the arts, such as music and literature, really play a significant role in Singaporean society?
5. ‘Medical science has been so successful that people now expect too much of it.’ Discuss.
6. ‘Hosting major sporting events creates more problems than benefits.’ Do you agree?
7. Examine the claim that the world is too dependent on oil.
8. ‘The tourist does not see the country the inhabitants know.’ How far is this true of Singapore?
9. ‘Instead of speeding up the pace of life, we should be slowing it down.’ What do you think?
10. Consider the view that the study of mathematics is intellectually satisfying, but of little practical use.
11. ‘Too much attention is given to criminals; not enough to their victims.’ Is this true?
12. How far do magazines or television programmes aimed at young people in Singapore have a positive effect?

2004 A-Level
1. To what extent are the young in Singapore favoured at the expense of the elderly? 
2. Are the poor an inevitable feature of any society? 
3. Do the past and present offer any guidance for the future? 
4. ‘How inventions and discoveries are used is not the concern of the scientist.’ Do you agree? 
5. ‘People, not the government, should decide how to organise their lives.’ Is this a fair comment?
6. How far is recycling the answer to the problem of waste? 
7. Can small countries have a significant voice in world affairs? 
8. Advertising encourages a desire for products which people do not actually need. Discuss. 
9. Have multi-national businesses had a positive or negative impact on your society? 
10. Discuss the appeal and value of fantasy stories and films. 
11. Discuss the importance of religion in society today.
12. ‘Far too much attention is given to beauty products and treatments.’ Do you agree?

2003 A-Level
1. To what extent are small businesses preferable to large ones?  2. ‘A good leader must always look beyond the needs of his or her country.’ Do you agree?  3. Does the book still have a future?  4. Is History anything more than the study of warfare?  5. Should medical science always seek to prolong life?  6. ‘The only worthwhile form of discipline is self-discipline.’ Discuss.  7. How far can the needs of minorities be met in modern Singapore?  8. Can the media ever be relied on to convey the truth?  9. Was life for young people in Singapore better in the past than it is today?  10. ‘Statistics measure everything but prove nothing.’ Discuss.  11. Does the modern world place too much reliance on technology?  12. ‘The family has suffered at the expense of career in Singaporean society.’ Is this a fair comment?

2002 A-Level
1. Is there a case for keeping animals in zoos?
2. ‘Conformity should be the main aim of all schools.’ How far is this true?
3. Can the trade in weapons ever be justified?
4. ‘If people become ill it is largely their own fault.’ How far do you agree?
5. Does a study of history make you optimistic or pessimistic about the future of the human race?
6. ‘Science and religion will always conflict.’ Discuss.
7. Should the police have unlimited powers when dealing with crime?
8. ‘The prospect of a Third World War is now unthinkable.’ Do you agree?
9. Do you agree that city life is becoming increasingly unattractive?
10. ‘Air travel creates more problems than benefits.’ Is this a fair comment?
11. Is friendly rivalry ever possible?
12. ‘A work of art can never be valued in just financial terms.’ Discuss.
